The Wickedness of Man On Earth:
1 Over time, the population of human beings began to multiply all over the earth, and daughters were also born. 
2 The sons of God, (who had left their place of habitation as in Jude 6), saw the human daughters on earth to be very beautiful. So they took as wives for themselves, whichever of the women they so desired. ([Refer to the commentary at the end of John 3 About The Only Begotten Son Of God]).
3 And The LORD, (ADONAI) said, “My Spirit will not always struggle in human beings. They are after all, flesh (mortal): Still, I will let them continue for 120 years”, [ref Genesis 11:10-32, Genesis 25:7, Genesis 35:28, Genesis 47:28]. ([Refer to the commentary at the end of Psalm 90  About Long Life And How Long]).
4 The Nephilim, (giants, tyrants), were on the earth, during those times, and also afterward. These happened when the sons of God, (who had left their place of habitation as in Jude 1:6), would come to the human daughters, and they would give birth to children for them. The offspring became the mightiest, (extraordinary), men of those ancient times. They were men of renown, (well-known tyrants), [ref Numbers 13:33, Deuteronomy 2:10-11, Deuteronomy 2:20, Deuteronomy 3:11].

The Wickedness of Humans On Earth:
5 The LORD saw that the wickedness of people throughout the earth was great and that every desire of people's thoughts in their hearts was only evil continuously, (in the full-blown reprobate state). 
6 For this reason, The LORD relented, (reconsidered, changed His mind, gave up), on the human beings He had made on the earth. It displeased (pained, ached, grieved) Him deeply in His heart, [ref Jonah 3:10, Jeremiah 18:8, Exodus 32:14, Romans 1:10-28].
7 Therefore, The LORD said, “I will wipe out the human beings whom I have created from the face of the earth, humans along with the animals, crawling things, and flying creatures, for I relent, (change My mind), that I made them.” 

Noah Found Grace Before God:
8 However, Noah found grace, (unmerited favor), in the eyes of The LORD, (ADONAI).
9 This is the lineage of Noah. Noah was just and blameless in his generations. Noah walked with God, (focused on doing what would please God). 
10 And Noah was the father of three sons, named: Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

The Earth Also Corrupted:
11 Also, the earth was corrupt, (desecrated, messed up), in God’s sight, and it was full of violence. 
12 God looked upon the earth, and truly it was corrupt because all the people on the earth had corrupted their ways.

Instruction For Building The Ark:
13 So God said to Noah: “The end of all flesh has come before Me; for the earth is filled with violence because of them. And surely, I will destroy them with the earth. 
14 Build for yourself an ark, (ship), of timber from gopher wood. Make compartments, (rooms), in the ark, and cover it inside and outside with pitch. 
15 This is the instruction you should follow: The length of the ark is to be 300 cubits, (450 feet, 137.16m), its width 50 cubits, (75feet, 22.86m), and its height thirty cubits, (45 feet, 13.72m). 
16 Make a skylight, (window), for the ark at the top, one cubit, (1½ feet, 0.46m), below its roof. Put an entrance, (a door way), on the side of the ark. Build the ark having three decks: lower deck (compartments), second deck (compartments), and third deck (compartments).
17 Be assured that I Myself will bring the floodwaters on the earth, to destroy from under heaven every living thing that breathes; everything that is on the earth will be destroyed. 18 But I will establish My covenant, (agreement), with you. You will enter the ark: you, your sons, your wife and your sons’ wives with you.
19 You are to bring into the ark a pair, (two), of every living thing that breathes, to keep them alive with you. They are to be male and female. 20 Two of each kind of bird, of each kind of animal, and of each kind of creeping things on the ground, will come to you, to keep them alive.
21 Also take along for yourself all the kinds of food that are eaten, and keep them with you. They are to be the food for you and for them”.
22 Noah did exactly like that. He obeyed according to everything that God had commanded him.Angel Meets Hagar In Wilderness:
7 An Angel of The LORD found Hagar by a spring of water in the desert. It was the spring that is by the side of the road to Shur. 
8 The angel said to her, “Hagar, servant of Sarai, where have you come from, and where are you going?”Hagar replied, “I am running away from the presence of my mistress Sarai.”
9 Then the Angel of The LORD  said to her, “Go back to your mistress, and submit yourself to her.” 
10 The Angel of The LORD  added (from Him), “I will multiply your descendants vastly, such that they will be too many to count.” 

Name And Personality of Hagai’s  Child Foretold:
11 The angel of The LORD further said to her: “Know that you are pregnant with a child, and you will give birth to a male child. You will name him Ishmael, for The LORD has heard your affliction. 
12 He will be an unruly, (a wild), man. His hand will be against everyone,  and everyone’s hand against him. And he will live in the presence of, (among), all his relatives.”
13 Then she called the name of The LORD who spoke to her, El Ro’i,  (The "God Who Sees"), because she said, “Have I really seen the One who sees me (and remained alive)?” 
14 Therefore the well was called Be’er-Lachai-Ro’i, (well of the one who lives and sees).  It is located between Kadesh and Bered.
15 So Hagar gave birth to a son for Abram. And Abram named his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael. 
16 Abram was 86 years old when Hagar gave birth to Ishmael for Abram.
